## LOGISTIC REGRESSION AND DECISION TREES CLASSIFICATION MODELS FOR DATES

A great variety of fruits of diverse sorts are grown all over the world. Color, length, diameter, and shape are external appearance features that distinguish the sort of fruit. The appearance of the fruits is crucial in distinguishing the fruit type. Identifying the type of fruit based on its look requires talent, which is time-consuming and labor-intensive. The purpose of this study is to categorize the numerous types of date fruit, which are Barhee, Deglet Nour, Sukkary, Rotab Mozafati, Ruthana, Safawi, and Sagai, using two machine learning algorithms, Logistic Regression and Decision Trees model. To that end, 898 photographs of seven distinct date fruit kinds were acquired using a computer vision system (CVS). These photos were processed using image processing algorithms to extract 34 attributes, including morphological traits, form, and color.
Previously, models were constructed using the logistic regression (LR) and artificial neural network (ANN) approaches, both of which are machine learning methods. These approaches provide 91.0 percent and 92.2 percent performance outcomes, respectively. The performance result was then raised to 92.8 percent using the stacking model generated by merging these models. It has been determined that machine learning approaches may be successfully used to the categorization of date fruit kinds.
In this study, the logistic regression model will also be fit on the provided dataset, and try to determine if the fit model will perform as well as the one that had been fit in the previous works. The study will go further and fit a decision tree model, and determine if it outperforms the logistic regression model.
There are four steps in any machine learning project, they will also be applied in this paper:
1.	Importing data
2.	Exploratory Data Analysis
3.	Model Fitting and Model Evaluation.
This work was done utilizing Python and jupyter notebooks as tools for analysis.
